feat(pow) move to linear difficulty function + more (#93)
alpenlabs/faucet-api: docs/pow.md

# Proof-of-work in the faucet

> The faucet uses POW challenges for anti-dos and dynamically shifts the

Reviewer: This is a public repo and documentation. Don't assume that readers have the same background knowledge on acronyms as you.

```suggestion
The faucet uses POW challenges for anti-Denial-of-Service and dynamically shifts the
```

> The faucet uses POW challenges for anti-dos and dynamically shifts the

Reviewer: First time you mention an acronym you give the full definition. Then, you can use it as much as you want.

```suggestion
The faucet uses Proof-of-Work (POW) challenges for anti-dos and dynamically shifts the
```

difficulty based on the faucet's balance.

Generally, the less bitcoin in the faucet, the more difficult it is to get out
via solving the POW challenge.

This was initially implemented via a logarithmic based function but since the
difficulty parameter already exponentially increases the difficulty, we switched

> to a linear approach which is easier to read and is less likely to blow up.

Reviewer: Why this is important to mention here? Just focus on the solution at hand.
For what's worth, this kinda of backlog details belongs to a `CHANGELOG.md`.

> Output: **$y$**, difficulty parameter. Difficulty is $2^y$. Amounts are in sats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output: **$y$**, difficulty parameter as a power of 2, i.e. $2^y$. Amounts are in sats, 1 bitcoin is $10^8$ sats.
```

Please double check the $8$.

> Output: **$y$**, difficulty parameter. Difficulty is $2^y$. Amounts are in sats.

Reviewer: Don't bold this. Otherwise they look like vectors or matrices in standard math notation

```suggestion
Output: $y$, difficulty parameter. Difficulty is $2^y$. Amounts are in sats.
```

Parameters:

> - **$x$**: Current balance of the faucet. Positive integer.
> - **$m$**: Minimum difficulty parameter, a good default is about 17-20. Between 0 and **$M$**.
> - **$q$**: Amount in sats emitted per successful faucet claim. Positive integer.
> - **$L$**: Difficulty linear increase coeffcient. A good default is 10-25. Positive integer.
> - **$b$**: Minimum balance. It will be computationally impossible to drop the faucet's balance below
> this value. Defaults to 0. Positive integer.
> 
> Constants:
> - **$M$**: Maximum difficulty parameter = 255

Reviewer: Don't bold these. Otherwise they look like vectors or matrices in standard math notation.

```suggestion
- $x$: Current balance of the faucet. Positive integer.
- $m$: Minimum difficulty parameter, a good default is about 17-20. Between 0 and $M$.
- $q$: Amount in sats emitted per successful faucet claim. Positive integer.
- $L$: Difficulty linear increase coefficient. A good default is 10-25. Positive integer.
- $b$: Minimum balance. It will be computationally impossible to drop the faucet's balance below
this value. Defaults to 0. Positive integer.

Constants:
- $M$: Maximum difficulty parameter = 255
```

$$\text{base}(x) = \frac{m - M}{Lq}(x-b) + M$$

$$y = \max(m, \min(M, \text{base}(x)))$$

Derivation method:

For $x \leq b$, $y = M$. I.e, when the faucet is at or below the minimum balance, the difficulty is
maximum.

At $x \geq b + Lq$, $y = m$. When the faucet has at least $b + Lq$, the difficulty is minimum.

$L$ controls the rate at which the difficulty increases. A higher $L$ means it will increase slower,
but the difficulty will start increasing earlier.

> For example, if $L = 10$, $b = 0$ and $q = 10000$, we'll start ramping up the difficulty once the
> faucet's balance drops below $b + Lq = 100000$ sats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if $L = 10$, $b = 0$ and $q = 10,000$, we'll start ramping up the difficulty once the
faucet's balance drops below $b + Lq = 100,000$ sats.
```
I, and a lot of readers, hate to count zeros.

Reviewer: Yes, that is also good `_`.

Given these rules, you can derive the equation above from a simple linear function.

## Implementation notes

> The actual implementation in src/pow.rs uses a optimised version to reduce CPU cycles. The gradient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual implementation in `src/pow.rs` uses an optimized version to reduce CPU cycles. The gradient
```

is calculated using precomputed values to avoid unnecessary multiplications and additions.

To optimize for computation with $x$ as the only dynamic variable, we rearrange the equation:

Starting with:
$$\text{base}(x) = \frac{m - M}{Lq}(x-b) + M$$

Expanding to:
$$\text{base}(x) = \frac{m - M}{Lq} \cdot x - \frac{m - M}{Lq} \cdot b + M$$

Now we can define two precomputable constants:

$$A = \frac{m - M}{Lq}$$

$$B = M - \frac{(m - M) \cdot b}{Lq}$$

This gives us the simplified form:

$$\text{base}(x) = A \cdot x + B$$

$$y = \max(m, \min(M, A \cdot x + B))$$

> So the implementation we use precomputes $$A$$ and $$B$$ via a config which is passed on every

Reviewer: inline $\LaTeX$
```suggestion
So the implementation we use precomputes $A$ and $B$ via a config which is passed on every
```
